[IMP] pos: stripe update (#18150)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/point_of_sale/payment_methods/terminals/stripe.rst

Stripe
======

> `Stripe <https://stripe.com/>`_ is available `globally for terminal setups
> <https://support.stripe.com/questions/global-availability-for-stripe-terminal>`_ and supports both
> online and in-person payment processing. For point-of-sale setups, Stripe offers a selection of
> first-party and third-party `terminals <https://stripe.com/terminal/devices>`_. Additionally, it

Reviewer: There's something about the intro that's not working for me.

- I think the '...for terminal setups', and especially adding a link to it, is too much here. I would suggest dropping it, and adding a bullet to the 'See also' as follows:

  - Url to link to (could this be a better url to link to? As it also gives payment methods on the same page, which I think is more relevant than the current link behind 'List of payment methods, because I guess that is also for online payments, right?): https://docs.stripe.com/terminal/payments/collect-card-payment/supported-card-brands
  - Text: Countries where Stripe is supported for use with a terminal

- And then maybe instead of the current 'List of payment methods ... ' (which, as mentioned, I think also includes online), rephrase and link to this part of the same page I mentioned above: https://docs.stripe.com/terminal/payments/collect-card-payment/supported-card-brands#payment-method-availability

- Along with all that, I'd suggest rephrasing the first sentence to something along these lines:

```suggestion
`Stripe <https://stripe.com/>`_ offers payment solutions for both online and in-person transactions. For point-of-sale setups, Stripe can be used with a choice of `proprietary and terminals <https://stripe.com/terminal/devices>`_. Additionally, it
```

integrates with Tap to Pay to accept contactless payments directly on compatible Android and iOS
devices.

.. important::
   Stripe payment terminals do not require an Odoo :doc:`IoT system </applications/general/iot>`.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Stripe as a payment provider <../../../../finance/payment_providers/stripe>`

>    - `List of payment methods supported by Stripe <https://stripe.com/payments/payment-methods>`_

Reviewer: See earlier comment

Configuration
=============

To use a Stripe terminal with Odoo, you need:

> - :ref:`A payment method directly connected to the physical device. <pos/stripe/method>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`An Odoo payment method configured and linked to the physical device. <pos/stripe/method>`
```

> - :ref:`A Stripe account connected to your Odoo database using the API keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`A Stripe account connected to your Odoo database using API keys.
```

  <pos/stripe/stripe_config>`

> - :ref:`A physical device connected to your Stripe account. <pos/stripe/stripe_terminal>`

Reviewer: I think it would read better with this kind of approach:

```suggestion
To use a Stripe-supported terminal with Odoo, you need to:

- :ref:`configure a payment method and link it to the physical device <pos/stripe/method>`
- :ref:`connect your Stripe account to your Odoo database using the API keys <pos/stripe/stripe_config>`
- :ref:`connect your physical device to your Stripe account <pos/stripe/stripe_terminal>`
```

.. _pos/stripe/method:

Configure the payment method
----------------------------

> To configure Stripe for Odoo, :ref:`enable Stripe <pos/terminals/configuration>`, and :doc:`create a
> new payment method <../../payment_methods>` integrated with a terminal.

Reviewer: Better to just give them one link to go to, since that Configuration section also includes a step about creating the corresponding payment method?

```suggestion
To configure Stripe for Odoo, :ref:`enable Stripe and create a
new payment method <pos/terminals/configuration>` integrated with a terminal.
```

And actually, maybe you need to be more specific than 'To configure Stripe for Odoo ...', since this is really just about the terminal side of things (nothing to do with online payments, right?)? Some mention that this is specifically for terminal payments, so if they already use it for online payments, they don't think "Oh, I already enabled it for that"? (Sorry, I don't know if that would be realistic 🙃 )

Author: Enabling it for online or card payments is the same, actually. If they use it for online payments, then they won't need to enable it again. Also, in that case, they would already have a configured Stripe account and provider; they would only need to configure the payment method and link it to the physical terminal.

> Next, enter your payment terminal's serial number in the :guilabel:`Stripe Serial Number` field and
> click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Don't forget to complete Stripe connect before using this
> payment method.` to access the Stripe configuration form.

Reviewer: Can we be clearer about _where_ this is? Maybe:

```suggestion
Next, on the new Stripe payment method form, enter your payment terminal's serial number in the :guilabel:`Stripe Serial Number` field, then
click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Don't forget to complete Stripe connect before using this payment method` to access the :ref:`Stripe configuration form <pos/stripe/stripe_config>`.
```
I know there's a full stop at the end of 'Don't forget to complete Stripe connect before using this payment method', but I think it'll just look like a typo if we keep it. Just my $0.02 😉 

(Also, related ... from here:

<img width="912" height="626" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f20649b3-915b-441e-9fcf-f0c73f1646ad" />

... shouldn't we maybe link directly to this 'Configure the payment method' section to make things easier for the reader?)

Author: I've been debating with myself about that `.`. x)  I think you're right, and it could be removed.

.. note::
   The payment terminal serial number can be found on the back of the physical device or on the

>    Stripe dashboard.

Reviewer: Since this is the first mention of the Stripe dashboard (and if you do feel it's worth linking to), I'd add the link here. Currently the link is on the second mention, in the next section.

.. _pos/stripe/stripe_config:

> Connect Stripe to Odoo

Reviewer: Just a suggestion ...

```suggestion
Connect your Stripe account to Odoo
```

----------------------

> From the Stripe configuration form,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Stripe configuration form:
```

Or even:

```suggestion
From the Stripe configuration form, follow these steps:
```

#. Click the :guilabel:`Connect Stripe` button, and fill in the form to create your Stripe account.
#. Once the form is complete, you are automatically redirected back to the Stripe configuration
   form.
#. Click :guilabel:`Get your Secret and Publishable keys` to be redirected to the Stripe dashboard.

> #. Click on the :guilabel:`Publishable key` and :guilabel:`Secret key` under the :guilabel:`Token`
>    column to copy the keys.
> #. Return to the Stripe configuration form and paste them into the appropriate fields.

Reviewer: Do you have to copy two values in step 4 and then paste them both in step 5 (where you'd only be able to paste the last thing on your clipboard)? If that's the case, I'd suggest wording like this:

```suggestion
#. Click on the :guilabel:`Publishable key` and :guilabel:`Secret key` respectively under the :guilabel:`Token` column to copy the keys and save the values.
#. Return to the Stripe configuration form and paste the keys into the appropriate fields.
```

Same comment for the next numbered list 🙂

#. Change the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled` once you are ready to go.

Alternatively, if you already have a Stripe account or if your database is hosted **On-Premise**,

> you can retrieve the API keys manually from the `Stripe dashboard <https://dashboard.stripe.com/>`_:

Reviewer: Maybe we need to make clear at the start of this section that the first set of instructions is for someone that 1) does not have a Stripe account yet and 2) is on SasS?

Also, you say " ... or if your database is hosted On-Premise, ...", but I guess if this is the case you would still need to create a Stripe account to be able to access a dashboard. So maybe this needs to be reworded?

Or maybe I'm missing something here ... also possible 🙃

#. Navigate to :menuselection:`Stripe dashboard --> Developers --> API keys`.
#. Click on the :guilabel:`Publishable key` and :guilabel:`Secret key` under the :guilabel:`Token`
   column to copy the keys.
#. Return to the Stripe configuration form and paste them into the appropriate fields.
#. Change the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled` once you are ready to go.

.. tip::
   Set the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Test Mode` to test transaction processes with a device.

.. _pos/stripe/stripe_terminal:

Configure the payment terminal
------------------------------

> Start by adding the physical location of your store to your Stripe account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by adding the physical location of your store to your Stripe account, as follows:
```

Actually, the 'Start by ...' makes it sound like there's going to be another set of instructions after. But there isn't, right? 

Maybe:

```suggestion
To connect your device to your Stripe account, follow these steps:
```

#. Log in to the Stripe dashboard and navigate to :menuselection:`Payments --> Terminal -->
   Locations`.
#. Click the :guilabel:`+ Create Location` button to add a new location, or select an existing one.

> #. Fill in the form with the store address and click :guilabel:`Done`. You are redirected back to
>    the list of locations.

Reviewer: (Without being able to see the actual Stripe UI) Could this be just:

```suggestion
#. Enter the store address and click :guilabel:`Done`. You are redirected back to
   the list of locations.
```

> #. Select your location, click :guilabel:`+ Register reader`, and choose one of the three pairing
>    methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select your location, click :guilabel:`+ Register reader`, and choose one of the pairing methods:
```

I don't feel it brings value to mention that there are 3.

   - :guilabel:`Pairing code`: Swipe right on your terminal screen, tap :guilabel:`Settings`, enter
     the admin PIN code (by default: `07139`), and tap :guilabel:`Generate pairing code`. Then,
     enter the generated code in the :guilabel:`Enter a pairing code` field, and click
     :guilabel:`Next`.
   - :guilabel:`Serial number`: Locate the number printed on the back of the physical terminal.
     Enter the number in the :guilabel:`Enter serial numbers` field, and click :guilabel:`Next`.
   - :guilabel:`Order number`: Go to the Stripe dashboard and navigate to :menuselection:`Payments
     --> Terminal --> Hardware orders`. Locate a hardware order marked as :guilabel:`Shipped` or
     :guilabel:`Delivered`, click the action menu at the end of the line, and select
     :guilabel:`Register`.

> Once the reader is paired, all Point of Sale transactions appear in your Stripe dashboard. To view

Reviewer: - Since you use 'pair' here, and the term is used in the Stripe dashboard itself, should we maybe talk more about 'pairing your terminal to your Stripe account' earlier on the page and in this section's title?

- About the capitalization of 'Point of Sale': have you used upper case because you really mean 'transactions from Odoo Point of Sale'? Or would a generic '... all point of sale transactions' be better?

Stripe
======

`Stripe <https://stripe.com/>`_ offers payment solutions for both online and in-person transactions.
For point-of-sale setups, Stripe can be used with a choice of `proprietary and third-party terminals
<https://stripe.com/terminal/devices>`_. Additionally, it integrates with Tap to Pay to accept

> contactless payments directly on compatible Android and iOS devices.

Reviewer: What do you think about adding a link to the Stripe Tap to Pay page (on 'Tap to Pay')?

https://stripe.com/en-be/terminal/tap-to-pay?

Configuration
=============

To use a Stripe-supported terminal with Odoo, you need to:

- :ref:`Configure a payment method and link it to the physical device. <pos/stripe/method>`
- :ref:`Connect your Stripe account to your Odoo database using the API keys.
  <pos/stripe/stripe_config>`
- :ref:`Pair your physical device to your Stripe account. <pos/stripe/stripe_terminal>`

.. _pos/stripe/method:

Configure the payment method
----------------------------

To configure Stripe for Odoo, :ref:`enable Stripe and create a new payment method
<pos/terminals/configuration>` integrated with a terminal.

Next, on the Stripe payment method form, enter your payment terminal's serial number in the
:guilabel:`Stripe Serial Number` field, then click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Don't forget to
complete Stripe connect before using this payment method` to access the :ref:`Stripe configuration
form <pos/stripe/stripe_config>`.

.. note::
   - The payment terminal serial number can be found on the back of the physical device or on the
     Stripe dashboard.
   - If you are already using Stripe for online payments, create the payment method and skip to the

>      :ref:`Configure the payment terminal <pos/stripe/stripe_terminal>` section since Stripe is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     :ref:`Pair the payment terminal to your Stripe account<pos/stripe/stripe_terminal>` section since Stripe is
```

Since you updated the name of the section

     already configured as a payment provider.

.. _pos/stripe/stripe_config:

> Connect your Stripe account to Odoo

Reviewer: Let's discuss this in person. I know you updated this based on my feedback, but it results in a lot of duplication and I'm not sure it's the best approach.

Also, I'm kinda confused ... what exactly is the 'Connect Stripe' button automating? I guess it helps you create an account, but then you get redirected back to the Stripe configuration form anyway. Also, if you click it, you can also enter the email address linked to an existing Stripe account, so what would happen if you entered an email address of an existing account ...?

<img width="502" height="363" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/933c6660-55a4-4fc1-b83d-ad15a9431403" />

Reviewer: As discussed (not fully correct, but as a start):

<img width="618" height="522" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e078a19-aca9-465c-acbd-4d494e282ec9" />

-----------------------------------

.. important::
   The automated **Connect Stripe** button is only available for **SaaS** databases. On-premise

>    databases must always use the manual connection process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The **Connect Stripe** button is only available for **SaaS** databases. On-premise
   databases must always use the manual connection process.
```

I'm not sure what you mean by automated ... but I think "The **Connect Stripe** button ..." is enough anyway, no?

SaaS databases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Option 1: I do not have a Stripe account yet
********************************************

This automated path creates your account and connects it directly to Odoo:

#. From the Stripe configuration form, click :guilabel:`Connect Stripe` and follow the steps to set
   up your Stripe account.
#. Once the form is complete, you are automatically redirected back to the Stripe configuration
   form.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Get your Secret and Publishable keys` to open the Stripe dashboard.

Reviewer: This step opens the Stripe dashboard. In the other sets of instructions, the user still has to go to Developers ‣ API keys to access the keys ... is that not the case here?

#. Copy your :guilabel:`Publishable key` and :guilabel:`Secret key` from the :guilabel:`Token`
   column and save the values.
#. Return to the Stripe configuration form and paste them into the appropriate fields.
#. Set the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. tip::
   Set the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Test Mode` to test transaction processes with a device.

Option 2: I already have a Stripe account
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

#. Log in to the `Stripe dashboard <https://dashboard.stripe.com/>`_.
#. Navigate to :menuselection:`Stripe dashboard --> Developers --> API keys`.
#. Click on the :guilabel:`Publishable key` and :guilabel:`Secret key` under the :guilabel:`Token`
   column to copy the keys and save the values.
#. Return to the Stripe configuration form and paste them into the appropriate fields.
#. Set the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. tip::
   Set the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Test Mode` to test transaction processes with a device.

> On-Premise Databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On-premise databases
```

That's the capitalization I see in the [doc on hosting](https://runbot303.odoo.com/runbot/static/build/121603309-19-0/logs/build/html/administration/hosting.html#)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you host Odoo On-Premise, you must retrieve your API keys manually, whether you already have a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you host Odoo on-premise, you must retrieve your API keys manually, whether you already have a
```
